# Postgres migrations

::: tip

Requires `@compas/cli` and `@compas/store` to be installed

:::

## Migration files

Compas cli comes with a migration runner built-in. This is based on various
migration functions exported from @compas/store. The migration system supports
two types of migrations:

- Forward migrations
- Repeatable migrations

Forward migrations are a way of only advancing the schema state. So when you
need to rollback a change, a new forward migration needs to be created.

Repeatable migrations can be used in combination with `CREATE OR REPLACE` with
for example views. If the hash of the current repeatable migration is not equal
to the last execution stored in the database, the migration is executed.

Every migration file gets a new transaction by default. To skip transaction
creation, add `-- disable auto transaction` in your file.

The migrations files are expected to live in `$project/migrations` directory.
The file names should be in the following format: `001-name.sql` or
`002-r-long-name.sql` for repeatable migrations.

We also support JavaScript based migrations, this allows you to do conditional
logic based on environment settings. A JavaScript migration file follows the
same file format as sql files: `002-my-js-migration.js`. To disable automatic
transactions you can use `// disable auto transaction` anywhere in the file.

The file is imported by the migration runner and expected to export the
following migration function:

```js
export async function migrate(sql) {
  // Do migrations
}
```

Note that it is suggested to keep the amount of differences per environment to a
minimal, since it makes issues harder to debug.

## Synopsis of @compas/cli

`compas migrate [rebuild|info] [--keep-alive]`

### `compas migrate`

Read the `$project/migrations` directory, print out migration information, see
`compas migrate info`, and execute the pending migrations. The process exits
afterwards.

### `compas migrate info`

Print information about the migration state and exit. The information consists
of migrations that are not applied yet, and migrations that have 'hashChanges',
basically saying that the file on disk is out of sync with the migration that
was applied in the past.

### `compas migrate rebuild`

Rebuild migration table with current file state. This allows for reordering
migrations, squashing migrations and other things that alter the migration
files, but do not affect the schema in any way. Note that Compas can't enforce
any consistency between the migration files and the current schema state. So use
with caution.

### `compas migrate --keep-alive`

Same as `compas migrate`, except keeping the Postgres connection running. This
is useful when your deploy solution doesn't allow for one of commands, but
allows private services that consume some sporadic resources.
