# Release notes v0.0.158

This release shifts the development experience for TS language server users (and
sort of forces others to become one). As far as I know,
[this (#1055)](https://github.com/compasjs/compas/pull/1055) has been the
longest open PR that got merged, and even has a predecessor,
[#461](https://github.com/compasjs/compas/pull/461), back in November 2020. So
let's get started.

## Cli

The Compas cli got a new command: `yarn compas init --jscconfig`. It
(over)writes the `jsconfig.json` in the project directory. This file will become
stricter over time, so keep it updated with Compas releases. This command and
file is not necessary when only using the frontend code generators, because they
imply an existing Typescript setup. To control the Typescript version used, you
should add 'typescript' as a 'devDependency' in you project.

## Lint config

Since we are adding Typescript definition files to the project, disable
automatic fixing of ESLint in your IDE for `.ts` and `.d.ts` files. This can be
skipped if your ESLint config supports TypeScript files, the
`@compas/lint-config` ones don't.

## Code gen

### Types

The first change in the code generators is that we now always create a
`structure.js` file with the used generator options. This is used is
'multi-generate' projects to combine all types in to a single `types.d.ts` file
to avoid type conflicts down the road.

In a single generate project, e.g. only a single `app.generate` call, only a
single addition is necessary. Add the following snippet after your
`app.generate`:

```js
await app.generateTypes({
  outputDirectory: "./types/generated",
  inputPaths: [],
  dumpCompasTypes: true,
});
```

The `dumpCompasTypes` option tells Compas to create a type definition file that
makes all major exported types from Compas global in the project. By doing it
this way you don't have to import types like `App` like

```js
/**
 * @typedef {import("@compas/stdlib").App} App
 */
```

in your project.

In a multi generate project things are a bit more complicated. We have to
prevent type conflicts of global types. To ensure this we use the
`dumpStructure` option of `app.generate` and use `app.generateTypes` to combine
all 'structures' in to a single type definition file.

- Explicitly mention the `enabledGenerators` in each `app.generate` call, but
  don't add the `type` generator. When `type` is the only generator,
  `enabledGenerators` may be an empty array.
- Add `dupmStructure: true` to each `app.generate` call.
- Add the above `app.generateTypes` call, but in `inputPaths` specify each
  `outputDirectory` of your `app.generate` calls.

This should give you a single type definition file specifying all necessary
types.

### Validators

Another generator that got a big change is the validator generator. It now
collects as many errors as possible before returning an `{ error }` or
`{ value }` object. This is combined with a few breaking changes:

- No TypeScript file support anymore, so the `app.generate` call will throw if
  used in combination with `useTypescript: true`.
- The `throwingValidator` option is removed, as validators will never throw but
  instead return an `{ error: AppError }` object if any validation error
  occurred.
- The top-level error key is always `validator.error`. All other validation keys
  are now nested in the 'info' object, with keys representing the 'property
  path' and values containing the specific validation error and any information.
  A full example looks something like:
  - Type definition:
  ```js
  const T = new TypeCreator();
  const type = {
    foo: T.bool(),
    bar: T.anyOf().values({ type: "car" }, { type: "bicycle" }),
  };
  ```
  - Input:
  ```json
  {
    "bar": {
      "type": "scooter"
    }
  }
  ```
  - Resulting error:
  ```json
  {
    "key": "validator.error",
    "info": {
      "$.foo": {
        "key": "validation.boolean.undefined",
        "info": {}
      },
      "$.bar": {
        "key": "validator.anyOf"
      },
      "$.bar.type": [
        {
          "key": "validator.string.oneOf",
          "info": {
            "oneOf": ["car"]
          }
        },
        {
          "key": "validator.string.oneOf",
          "info": {
            "oneOf": ["bicycle"]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
  ```

Note that for `anyOf` validators the result may contain an array, since the
property path may be the same.

## In closing

There is a bunch of improvements & automation to be added, like auto generating
documentation from the generated type definitions, writing tests for the type
definitions and making the public api surface more strict by adding `@private`
tags. But that's stuff for the future, for now I am back focussing on feature
stability and some improvements & additions to existing features.

As always please report missing type definitions and report bugs, thanks!
