# Release notes v0.0.172

Since Compas v0.0.14 we have been working on a session management experience
that works across the board. Rocking quite some features:

- Allows localhost cookies to develop against a remote staging server
- Completely backend managed session lifecycle, with custom rolling session
  behaviour
- Secure defaults for production environments
- Quick setup, all kinks worked out.

However, there are two major downsides;

- Quite a few workarounds where added, like the `compas proxy` rewriting
  cookies, and things like `keepPublicCookie` for the frontend to check if a
  session may exist before attempting any call.
- The cookies don't work in all environments. Where things like mobile apps need
  to open a webview, login and then hope that the cookies that where returned
  would be added to api calls from the app.

So we created a new session store accessible via 'fancy session tokens' in a
JSON Web Token format. Which doesn't do any assumptions about how tokens are
transported over the network. Shifting responsibility for secure transport,
storage on the client and refreshing the session to the end user of Compas, you
:)

## Session store

Migration to the new session store is quite the task. Let's start by removing
the deprecated components:

- Remove any reference to `session` imported from `@compas/server`. This is the
  Koa middleware that currently powers the full cookie management. There is no
  replacement in `@compas/server`.
- Remove any reference `newSessionStore` imported from `@compas/store`. This
  component was used to persist sessions created by the session middleware in
  PostgreSQL.

The last session detail related to the old session management is `ctx.session`
used in your route handlers. It is up to you if you want to replace it
completely or if you want to use the new session management functions to be
based on `ctx.session`. The next steps will describe current behaviours of
`ctx.session` and which `sessionStoreXxx` calls relate to that behaviour. Please
refer to the [session docs](/features/session-handling.html) for details on the
functions mentioned below.

#### Creating a session

Previously creating a session could be done by setting `ctx.session` to a new
object. This would automatically persist the session and set cookies in the
response. This is now powered by `sessionStoreCreate` and the returned tokens
need to manually be transported to the client. It is advised to return the
tokens in the response body.

#### Reading the session

Reading the session was as easy as checking `ctx.session`. This is a bit more
complex in the new system. The application needs to maintain the session id in
the request context, because this is needed to for example update the session.
By calling `sessionStoreGet` you get an object containing `id`, `checksum` and
`data`. You could store this information on `ctx._session` for example as `id`
and `checksum` are necessary for `sessionStoreUpdate` and
`sessionStoreInvalidate`. But `data` is the one you need to populate
`ctx.session`. We advise to use an `Authorization: Bearer xxx` header format for
transporting the access token from the client to the server.

#### Updating a session

The old session management would automatically check if the `ctx.session` object
did change and persist the new session data if necessary. The new
`sessionStoreUpdate` call does exactly that, and thus can be called on every
request with minimal performance impact.

#### Removing a session

Previously destroying a session would be done by setting `ctx.session` to
`null`. This is now handled via `sessionStoreInvalidate` which revokes all
tokens related to the session.

#### Custom max age

The previous session management had features to set a custom `_maxAge` on
`ctx.session`. This is not supported anymore.

#### Sliding session window

The default settings for session management did set up a rolling session system.
Meaning that sessions would automatically be renewed on incoming requests if
necessary. This is not possible in the new system. Your api need to have some
way of refreshing the session via for example a new endpoint, which internally
calls `sessionStoreRefreshTokens`. And the api clients need to check the `exp`
field on the access and refresh tokens to decide if they should call the refresh
endpoint.

#### Cleaning up old sessions

Previously we exposed a `.clean()` function on the session store returned from
`newSessionStore`. This would remove all session records PostgreSQL that where
expired. The new system has the same feature via
`sessionStoreCleanupExpiredSessions`.

### Migration

The new session store is of course backed by Postgres, and needs the following
migration:

```sql
CREATE TABLE "sessionStore"
(
  "id"        uuid PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  "checksum"  varchar          NOT NULL,
  "data"      jsonb            NOT NULL,
  "revokedAt" timestamptz      NULL,
  "createdAt" timestamptz      NOT NULL DEFAULT now(),
  "updatedAt" timestamptz      NOT NULL DEFAULT now()
);

CREATE TABLE "sessionStoreToken"
(
  "id"           uuid PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  "session"      uuid             NOT NULL,
  "expiresAt"    timestamptz      NOT NULL,
  "refreshToken" uuid             NULL,
  "revokedAt"    timestamptz      NULL,
  "createdAt"    timestamptz      NOT NULL,
  CONSTRAINT "sessionStoreTokenSessionFk" FOREIGN KEY ("session") REFERENCES "sessionStore" ("id") ON DELETE CASCADE,
  CONSTRAINT "sessionStoreTokenRefreshTokenFk" FOREIGN KEY ("refreshToken") REFERENCES "sessionStoreToken" ("id") ON DELETE CASCADE
);

CREATE INDEX "sessionStoreTokenSessionIdx" ON "sessionStoreToken" ("session");
CREATE INDEX "sessionStoreTokenRefreshTokenIdx" ON "sessionStoreToken" ("refreshToken");
```

## In closing

Since this is a big change, we still support `sessionMiddleware`,
`newSessionStore`, etc in v0.0.172. And most likely in v0.0.173 as well, but it
will be removed in a future release.
