# Release notes v0.0.103

Another big release, another set of release notes. Usually that means there are
some breaking changes, as is the case with v0.0.103. This release notes are a
bit different tho, we renamed to Compas! Due to that we have a bit more breaking
changes than planned. Find a migration guide near the bottom of this doc. Buckle
up, and let's get started.

##### TL;DR

First time this is needed, let's go:

- Stable generated validators
- Any type custom validators
- Default validator errors, removed `validatorSetError`
- Add `dumpApiStructure`
- Generate sql query builders

##### Lint config changes

We did some version bumps on the dependencies of @compas/lint-config. This
brought a new ESLint rule
[no-unsafe-optional-chaining](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/no-unsafe-optional-chaining).
This is now enabled by default.

##### Stable validator output

Previously, if you introduced a new type somewhere, all anonymous validators
would get a different name. This was simply based on an increasing number, where
a unique type would get a new number and thus created function names like
`anonymousValidator3`. The new anonymous validator names will look something
like `anonymousValidator781180217`. These names are based on a hash generated
from te type. This results in git diffs being easier to read.

##### Any Validators

We now have support for custom validators for `T.any()` types. These should
return a boolean value, and don't have to worry about nullability. A simple
example:

```js
// generate.js

const T = new TypeCreator();
app.add(
  T.any().raw("{ myType: true }").validator("myValidator", {
    javaScript: 'import { myValidator } from "./dist/custom-validators.js";',
    typeScript: 'import { myValidator } from "./src/custom-validators.ts";',
  }),
);
```

```ts
// src/custom-validator.js

type MyType = { myType: true };

function isMyType(value): value is MyType {
  return value?.myType === true;
}
```

This way you can even reuse you custom validator as a TypeScript type-guard.

##### Inline validators

To improve performance and reduce call stacks, we introduce inline validators.
This is a fully backwards compatible change. For now only a few cases will be
inlined, for example any types, booleans, string oneOf and references. There is
a trade-off here between re-usability and decreasing callstacks. So we are not
sure yet how far this will go and if we should find a better way of doing it.

##### Simplified strict object validation

In your anonymous-validator file, you will now find all static keys of the
objects that are validated in strict mode. Instead of allocating a Set every
validation call, we now reuse this set, and do the strict check first. This is
inspired by the key checks done in the generated `UPDATE` and `INSERT` query
partials.

##### Simplified validation errors

We do not generate `validationSetError` any more. Instead we have defaults
depending on the `throwingValidators` option. When true, as is the default for
`isNodeServer`, this will throw via `AppError.validationError` and thus result
in a `400` status code in a HTTP request context. When `throwingValidators` is
false, the default for `isNode` and `isBrowser`, The returned errors array, will
contain plain JavaScript objects.

##### Removed default of unsafe `dumpStructure` option

Dump structure served us well as the only way of exposing a structure to the
outside world. However, it has some downsides. The outside world does not need
to know what the object relations are, or other internal types. So we added
`dumpApiStructure`. This only exposes the routes and types referenced by the
routes. As a side effect, this breaks for generated api clients that depend on
these types.

When `isNodeServer` is true, this new settings are in effect as defaults. For
package maintainers, you would need to add `dumpStructure` to the generator
options, if it is part of your api surface.

##### SQL Query builders

The biggest feature of this release is nested sql query builders. It solves a
few things in one go:

- Get nested results from Postgres
- Transform results in usable JavaScript objects, converting Dates back and
  removing nulls
- Includes the old traverse builder

There are still lots of missing features and some limitations:

- Offset and limit are not supported in nested builders yet
- Generated transformers don't work with self referencing types, either direct
  or indirect.
- Transformers only work correctly nested with a valid builder object. This will
  most likely always be the case.

Note that we have enabled the transformers for the basic queries as well, and
thus you'd be able to directly benefit from it without having to use a nested
query.

##### SQL Where and query builder argument validation

We have removed the custom key check from generated Where partials, and now use
full validator features. This may not be completely obvious, but as noted above
will result in a `AppError.validationError`.

##### SQL Where or support

The last small, but darn useful feature is `OR` support in the generated Where
partials. The new where-objects now accept an `$or` key with an array of nested
where-objects. This allows for any recursing `OR` and `AND` combination
necessary.

##### Migration guide

This will be a collection of steps and settings to overcome the breaking
changes. Make sure to update the dependencies, that depend on Compas, first. So
first any packages, then private services and then the final project that
depends on these packages and services. Projects that only use the api client
generators, should wait on the respective api's to update.

The first thing is to clean up the current installation:

```shell
yarn lbu docker clean
```

This will remove the Docker containers and volumes created by LBU. Next install
the new packages, by replacing `@lbu` with `@compas` and changing the versions
to `0.0.103`. At this point it is a good time tho rename all your imports and
script references. For imports, the following replace may work:

- Replace search: `"@lbu/([\w-]+)"`
- Replace value: `"@compas/$1"`

There are no default generate settings for packages anymore. A good starting
point is:

```js
/** @type {GenerateOpts} */
const generateOpts = {
  enabledGroups: ["store"],
  enabledGenerators: ["type", "sql", "validator"],
  throwingValidators: true,
  isNode: true,
  dumpStructure: true,
  dumpPostgres: true,
};
```

For projects already running in production (not advisable...), recurring jobs
should be automatically upgraded. This will be removed in the next feature
release. Migrations are a bit trickier and require a manual query:

```sql
BEGIN;
UPDATE "migration"
SET
  namespace = '@compas/store'
WHERE
  namespace = '@lbu/store';
COMMIT;
```

Other than the breaking changes mentioned earlier in this doc, this should be
it.

### In closing

A big release since a while. This was mostly due to time, features piling up and
renaming to Compas. One of the last ones before a v0.1.0. Much work is still
needed on writing the docs. And prefer to have this release tested in the wild,
before going in beta.
