# Release notes v0.0.115

This release is not that big, but still worth for proper release notes. We go
over the changes package by package.

## Code gen

It does not feel like a proper Compas release without some fixes or features
added to the code generators, as is the case this time. The table traverser is a
relative new feature added in Compas v0.0.103. At that point we did not have a
query builder, and generated a stand-alone table traverser that unlocked the
following chains:

```js
// Get all users that liked the specific post
const users = queryUser().viaLikes().viaPosts({ id: postId });
```

This was straight forward to use, but limited in options. You could not use this
to filter on two separate ' traverse'-chains.

Next came the query-builder with its built-in support for table traversal. This
unlocked traversing via multiple chains, however it was not documented as such.
To explain why, let us do a run down of what the traverser does.

Provided the following structure:

```
User:
- id: uuid
- name: string

Post:
- id: uuid
- writer: uuid -> User
- title: string

Like:
- id: uuid
- user: uuid -> User
- post: uuid -> Post
```

We have `User`, `Post` and `Like` as our tables. The relation being that a
`User` is the `writer` of many `Post`, and a `User` can `Like` many `Post`. To
get all users that have written at least a single post, we can do the following:

```js
const users = await queryUser({
  where: {},
  viaPosts: {},
}).exec(sql);
```

Internally, the `viaPosts` was converted to a `QueryPart` and thus allowed to be
set on the `where`-object as the `idIn` field. The `QueryPart` was a query
selecting the `writer` field from `Post`.

If we do one of the following things you would get unexpected results:

```js
// Get users that have written a post and that are in our selection in 'idIn'.
const users = await queryUser({
  where: {
    idIn: ["uuid-110", "uuid-120", "uuid-130"],
  },
  viaPosts: {},
}).exec(sql);

// Get users that have written a post and have liked an post
const users = await queryUser({
  where: {},
  viaPosts: {},
  viaLikes: {},
}).exec(sql);
```

We have a problem in both cases. In our first case we already set `idIn` however
`viaPosts` will overwrite it. In the second case, since both `Like` and `Post`
are referenced via the `id` on a `User`, `viaLikes` would overwrite `viaPosts`
since they both set directly the `idIn` property on the provided `where` object.

Of course not all references would go via the `idIn` parameter, so indirectly
the generated traverser could work with multiple chains, but would fail on the
most useful cases.

In this release we solve these cases. We now generate an `INTERSECT` query from
all `viaXxx` calls and if necessary combine it with an existing `idIn` array.
`INTERSECT` gives us the same `AND` guarantees as normal `where` filters.

## Store

The `JobQueueWorker` got two upgrades as well, breaking existing behaviour.

**Managed retries**:

The worker now won't leak any errors that are thrown by job handler invocations.
Instead, all errors are caught. On error the job id, name, retryCount and error
are logged via an error log. The `retryCount` is then increased and sql
transaction is committed.

By adding a savepoint, we can rollback any queries done by the job handler. Note
that you won't see failed transactions from the worker anymore, so that metric
may become less relevant for you. We added a `maxRetryCount` to the options that
can be provided to the constructor, it defaults to `5`.

**Handler timeouts**

To prevent that the worker is too busy with a job, comes in a infinite async
loop or for some other reason takes long to complete. We now automatically stop
the job and let it be processed as if an error was thrown by the handler. Which
results in an increased `retryCount`. Note that this won't work correctly if the
job does only synchronous processing.

The timeout can be configured via the constructor options under `handlerTimeout`
in milliseconds, and defaults to 30 seconds.

## In closing

Some other chores are being done as well, like writing docs (A). The Compas repo
will now require use of conventional-commit like specifiers in the commit title,
like `feat`, `fix`, etc. This was decided after some feedback to get a quicker
overview of the current state of development.

I am also experimenting a bit with JSDoc based documentation again. We had TSDoc
based documentation for a while, based on the `index.d.ts` files that we
provide. The output was too unstructured, and overall hard to use in any form.
If anyone has any suggestions please let me know directly or via the
[Align JSDoc issue](https://github.com/compasjs/compas/issues/568).
