# Release notes v0.0.212

The major breaking change for this Compas release is the refactoring of file
related functions, including a swap from the Minio JS SDK to the AWS S3 SDK.

This was done for a couple of reasons. The file related functions where all over
the place with no consistent names. Now they are all prefixed with either
`objectStorage` or `file(Send)` and accept their arguments with consistent order
and naming. Another reason is that the AWS SDK is somewhat lighter and since V3
has a pretty nice api to work with. Making it much easier to use the same AWS
client for all your projects needs.

Below we will try to be as exhaustive as possible with all the breaking changes.
Most of them should be fixable by calling a different function or providing
different arguments. Most of the functionality stays the same.

## Upgrade path

**Environment variables**:

The `MINIO_` environment variables are not read anymore by Compas. For
development, you should use the `objectStorageGetDevelopmentConfig()` function
to connect with the local Minio container. For production, you should refer to
the
[AWS SDK docs about credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v3/developer-guide/setting-credentials-node.html)
.

**`newMinioClient()` -> `objectStorageCreateClient()`**:

Creating a client now looks something like the following;

```js
const s3Client = objectStorageCreateClient(
  isProduction()
    ? {
        /* See AWS SDK docs */
      }
    : objectStorageGetDevelopmentConfig(),
);
```

**`MinioClient` -> `S3Client`**:

The `MinioClient` type is also removed. Compas is now typed with the `S3Client`
type. This can be imported from `@compas/store` or is generated as a global type
via `app#generateTypes({ dumpCompasTypes: true })` from `@compas/code-gen`.

**`ensureBucket()` -> `objectStorageEnsureBucket()`**:

`ensureBucket` is replaced with `objectStorageEnsureBucket`.

**`removeBucket() / removeBucketAndObjectsInBucket()` ->
`objectStorageRemoveBucket()`**:

Both `removeBucket` and `removeBucketAndObjectsInBucket` are consolidated in to
a single function. Note that this may be a slow operation depending on how many
objects there are.

**`listObjects()` -> `objectStorageListObjects()`**

A notable change here is that instead of returning an array with keys, it now
returns an `AsyncIterator`, this can be used like so;

```js
for await (const partition of objectStorageListObjects(s3Client, {
  bucketName,
})) {
  for (const object of partition?.Contents ?? []) {
    // -> object.Key
  }
}
```

**`copyAllObjects() / copyFile()`**:

These copy operations are now longer supported. Use the AWS SDK directly via the
[CopyObjectCommand](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/v3/latest/clients/client-s3/classes/copyobjectcommand.html)
.

**`createOrUpdateFile()` -> `fileCreateOrUpdate()`**:

This is not only a rename, but the function signature has changed as well. The
`bucketName` and `options` (last argument) are consolidated in to a single
options object. Otherwise the working is the same.

**`fileFormatResponse()` -> `fileFormatMetadata()`**:

The api is the same, but merely renamed to avoid confusion with
`fileSendResponse`. Since this function does not return a response but only an
object.

**`getFileStream()` -> `objectStorageGetObjectStream()`**:

This function has an api change to align with the other exported functions.

**`syncDeletedFiles()` -> `fileSyncDeletedWithObjectStorage()`**:

Another function that is renamed and has some renamed arguments for consistency.

**`FileCache`**:

The FileCache is removed. It's functionality was questionable at best. Later
versions may bring this kind of functionality back, but in another form. Compas
functions that expected an `getStreamFn` are now changed to just expect the
`S3Client` directly.

**`sendFile()` -> `fileSendResponse()`**:

The `sendFile` utility from `@compas/server` is removed and replaced with
`fileSendResponse()` from `@compas/store`. This brings all file handling in to
`@compas/store` where it belongs. The functionality is however the same as
before.

**`sendTransformedImage()` -> `fileSendTransformedImageResponse()`**:

Other than the rename, this function now doesn't accept `sendFile` anymore. This
was necessary before because `sendFile` was not part of `@compas/store`.

## create-compas

Another main addition this release cycle is the experimental `create-compas`
package. Initialize Compas projects based on Compas examples or a custom
repository.

Examples:

- yarn create compas
- npx create-compas@latest
- npx create-compas@latest --template with-auth
- npx create-compas@latest --template github:user/repo --output-directory
  ./my-project
- npx create-compas@latest --template github:user/repo --template-path
  ./path/to/scaffold --template-ref v1.0

Note that we are currently working on the default template, so
`npx create-compas@latest` currently only creates a project with the necessary
configuration for `@compas/eslint-plugin`. Feel free to sometimes create the
template from `main` via `npx create-compas@latest --template-ref main` to see
the work in progress.

## In closing

The file handling functionality always stood out from the rest. Being the main
source of api inconsistencies. With this refactor most functionality is kept as
is and unused or questionable functionality is removed. I hope you have a smooth
upgrade! Feel free to leave feedback on a GitHub issue or discussion.
