# Release notes v0.0.83

As I already apologized in advance in the previous release notes, let's get
started! Since we have some breaking changes to the structure format you should
update in the following order:

- Packages
- Backends
- Generated clients

Note that some parts of this document can be a bit hard to read through, but
take it as a reference to explore the newly generated features.

### Code gen

The code generators got a complete refactor. We did this to allow some planned
features, make types more correct, and all in all just give it a nice cleanup.
This allowed us to make the validators more tree shakeable and have a more
extensive sql query setup in the future. We also dropped support for generator
plugins and type plugins. Instead, we are going to aim for structure stability
so that anyone can generate whatever they want, in whatever language they want.

This all probably breaks your code, so below a list of situations and how to
migrate them over.

##### Generated clients

It is not necessary anymore to pass in `collectValidatorErrors` to
`app.generate()` calls. We now always collect all errors. In the near future we
are planning to
[collect an error set](https://github.com/lightbasenl/lbu/issues/205), so you
are able to statically check if you handle all possible cases.

Before generating again, make sure to remove the current generator output. We
are now able to generate TypeScript files for all the generators, which is
enabled by default.

A lot of generated types are not available anymore. However, the types that are
generated should be more relevant, for example dates are now be handled
correctly.

When you want to use validators, make sure to import them from the specific
file, ( eg `./generated/my-group/validators.ts`). This will hopefully allow
Webpack to strip out any unused validators.

The generated api client and react-query based hooks should still work the same.

##### Packages

Packages that use queries should allow overriding the generated queries. This
can be archived with something like the following in `src/generated.js`:

```js
// An example taken from @lbu/store
import { queries as defaultQueries } from "./generated/index.js";

export let queries = defaultQueries;

/**
 * Overwrite used generated queries.
 * This is needed when you want cascading soft deletes to any of the exposed types
 * @param {typeof defaultQueries} q
 */
export function setStoreQueries(q) {
  queries = q;
}
```

This way the package can still do cascading soft deletes across user code if
necessary. The package should then use
`import { queries } from "./generated.js";` instead of
`import { xxxQueries } from "./generated/queries.js";`

##### Backends

The generated router & validators work practically the same as the previous
generated versions. The most notably change here is that the exports go via
`./generated/index.js`.

The big hit here is with queries and structure changes. `T.objects` that have
enabled queries are changed the most:

We automatically add primary keys of type 'uuid' if none is provided. This can
be disabled by passing in `withPrimaryKey: false` in to `.enableQueries()`.

Another new option is added to `.enableQueries()`, 'isView'. This disables some
parts of the generator that have to do with `INSERT`, `UPDATE` and `DELETE`
queries.

The sql relation system is revamped. They now need to be provided via
`T.object().relations()`, which accepts any number of relations. To create
relations the `TypeCreator` (`T.`) supports the following:

- `T.oneToMany("key1", T.reference())`: The '1' side of a 1 - many relation
- `T.manyToOne("key2", T.reference(), "key1")`: The 'many' side of many - 1
  relation. This side will get an extra field that has a foreign key to the
  primary key of `T.reference()`.
- `T.oneToOne("key3", T.reference(), "key4")`: The owning side of a 1 - 1
  relation. The object where this relation is added will get an extra field that
  has a foreign key the primary key of the provided `T.reference()`. The inverse
  side is automatically added.

Both `T.manyToOne()` and `T.oneToOne()` support `.optional()`. This results in a
nullable field, and the generated structure will by default add an
`ON DELETE SET NULL`. The error messages have some improvements here as well, so
if something is missing, the generator will let you know.

The output of the 'sql' generator does not contain everything from the previous
generator. The `Upsert` queries and selects with joins (eg.
`userSelectWithPosts`) are missing. However, most of the time the generated
queries should be compatible with the new output, so it is fine to keep the
previous `generated/queries.js` for a bit while migrating those queries to the
business domain.

The sql output is now modular build. This is allowed by a custom query builder
provided by @lbu/store. More on that builder later in these release notes. The
generated queries also do not use the 'group' name in any of the output. This
results in more exported functions for you to use. Say that we have an object
called 'user', we get the following functions:

Partials:

- `userFields(): QueryPart`: Returns qualified names for all field of the user
  table. This can be used in `SELECT` queries and for `RETURNING` part in
  `INSERT/UPDATE` queries.
- `userWhere(): QueryPart`: Builds a `WHERE` statement dynamically. This has
  some new options like `isNull`, `isNotNull` , `notEqual`, `notLike` and
  `notIn`.
- `userOrderBy(): QueryPart`: An appropriate default `ORDER BY` statement for
  the specific table. Also supports tables without any of `withDates` and
  `withSoftDeletes` enabled.
- `userInsertValues(): QueryPart`: Creates the `VALUES` part of an `INSERT`
  query, making sure that the defaults provided by `.default()` are all taken
  into account.
- `userUpdateSet(): QueryPart`: Builds the `SET` part of an `UPDATE` query.
  Making sure `updatedAt` is added when necessary.

Basic CRUD queries:

- `userSelect(sql, where)`: Execute a `SELECT` query
- `userCount(sql, where)`: Count the affected rows and returns a `number`
- `userInsert(sql, where)`: Execute an `INSERT` query, will return the affected
  rows.
- `userUpdate(sql, where)`: Execute an `UPDATE` query, will return the affected
  rows.
- `userDelete(sql, where)`: Execute a `DELETE` query. When the option
  `withSoftDeletes` is true, this will be an `UPDATE` query.
- `userDeletePermanent(sql, where)`: Only generated when the option
  `withSoftDeletes` is true, this will execute a `DELETE` query and is thus
  destructive.

The 'delete' queries in a `withSoftDeletes` situation will now cascade this
automatically to the dependent relations. It is advised to always run this in a
transaction.

Traverse the graph:

The last 'query' added is `traverseUser()`. This is a set of functions that are
able to get relations via other relations. Say we have
`Post <-> User <-> Group`, we can easily fetch all posts created by users in the
group of a specific user, with only a single 'id' of the user, like so:
`traverseUser({ id: "my id" }).getGroup().getUsers().getPosts()`. Along the way
you can do some more filtering. Future versions may add features like limiting
the amount of results per step.

We also revamped the `dumpStructure` option that could be passed to
`app.generate()`. It will now create a file as well in the output directory.
This file should not be committed to version control, and is still only an
example to help you with migrations.

As noted in the 'Packages' part of this changelog, it is advisable to call any
`setPackageQueries` of the packages you are using.

The last lovely feature that is added, is stable fields output. This makes sure
the date fields added by `withDates` and `withSoftDeletes` are always last, and
the (injected) primary key is always first.

### Store

The store got some features added. We migrated to the new generated queries
without any breaking changes.

We now export a `query` function this is a tagged template function, and thus
supports to be called like the following:

```js
const bucketName = "bar";

// Typeof myQuery = `QueryPart`, this is the same as returned by the 'partial' generated queries
const myQuery = query`SELECT ${fileFields()} FROM "file" f WHERE f."bucketName" = ${bucketName}`;
myQuery.append(query`ORDER BY ${fileOrderBy()}`);

const queryResult = await myQuery.exec(sql);
```

The `query` function is used by all newly generated queries, and allows
injection safe query building. It also supports providing another `QueryPart` as
an injected value as well as `.append`-ing one.

Another neat function added is `explainAnalyzeQuery`. This can run any query
safely (in a rolled back transaction) and return the query plan as either text
or json. Note that the result you get on a development setup is most likely not
the same as the one you will get in production. So keep that in my mind while
exploring :)

Lastly there is now support for grouping and ordering files. The two entities
added are `fileGroup` and `fileGroupView`. As the name suggests `fileGroupView`
is backed by a view, and only adds the calculated `isDirectory` property. Most
operations should be done via the generated queries, however there are three
functions exported that will help you with your operations:

- `hoistChildrenToParent`: move all children a level up in the tree. Most likely
  used in preparation of deleting a group.
- `updateFileGroupOrder`: given an array of id's atomically updates the order to
  reflect the order of the array, without the need of a transaction. Note that
  the provided id's do not necessarily be of the same parent, and thus any
  number of groups can be sorted in a single call.
- `getNestedFileGroups`: returns the nested structure of a group starting at any
  arbitrary root, and able to include the referenced files. The resulting nested
  structure is also sorted.

There is also support for an arbitrary meta field on any file and fileGroup like
so:

```js
const app = await App.new();
const T = new TypeCreator("store");

app.add(
  T.object("fileMeta").keys({
    // Put your custom meta data here
  }),
);

app.add(
  T.anyOf("fileGroupMeta").values(
    {
      // Custom metadata
    },
    {
      // Or another structure with different meta data
    },
  ),
);
```

When migrating from existing implementations of grouping, it is advisable to
change all relations to point to `T.reference("store", "file")` and places that
need a group to `T.reference("store", "fileGroup")`.

### In closing

This release contains probably the most breaking changes till now. We are aiming
for structure stability and a first beta on `0.1.0` in the upcoming weeks. Till
then, expect some new query capabilities like
[atomic updates](https://github.com/lightbasenl/lbu/issues/383),
[a query builder](https://github.com/lightbasenl/lbu/issues/388),
[many to many relations](https://github.com/lightbasenl/lbu/issues/385),
[unique index and upsert support](https://github.com/lightbasenl/lbu/issues/387)
and many more.

~~Dang, my vacation was exactly long enough to complete this, but it's over now
-\_-.~~
