# Release notes v0.0.171

Another release packed with a bunch of dependency updates, fixes and of course
some features. Although we have some breaking changes. That is not the major
reason for these release notes. Read on to check what it is.

## The small changes

- AppError#format know supports formatting all kinds of primitives in addition
  to Error and AppError instances. This is useful when an underlying library
  throws a string instead of an Error.
- We enabled running Compas tests on Node.js 17. In the near future we will also
  run our lint & benchmarks on Node.js 17. Note that even though we run our
  tests there, it is not officially supported.
- Code generators now print out an error if `enabledGroups` contain a group that
  is not included in the known structure. This can help spot typo's or left over
  artifacts.
- Include a React import in the `common/reactQuries.tsx` file, this isn't used
  but required in some environments.

## The breaking changes

Let's start with a breaking change in the way uploaded files are represented in
the backend. We updated Formidable to `2.0.1` after being on a canary version
for too long. This introduced some property renames:

- `ctx.validatedFiles.xxx.path` -> `ctx.validatedFiles.xxx.filepath`
- `ctx.validatedFiles.xxx.name` -> `ctx.validatedFiles.xxx.originalFilename`
- `ctx.validatedFiles.xxx.type` -> `ctx.validatedFiles.xxx.mimetype`

The easiest way to update these changes, is to globally search for
`ctx.validatedFiles` and trace your usages from there. Note that you also need
to regenerate this the validator know also checks on these new properties.

The second breaking change has to do with the `AbortSignal` and support for it
in Axios & react-query. All api client functions now optionally accept a partial
`AxiosRequestConfig`, currently limited to `signal`, that is passed to Axios
directly. This also affects the generated react-query based hooks. Luckily for
us, react-query now supports creating an `AbortSignal` for us in the `queryFn`,
so we use that to provide to the api client functions. This also means that we
don't have to add `cancelToken` to the `UseQueryOptions`, so that is removed as
well.

## The features

After already having a way to extend a compas structure/application with an
imported OpenAPI specs (api definition), by calling `extendWithOpenApi` on the
app instance. It's now possible to export any compas app to the same
specification (v3.0.3). Currently, the minimal set is implemented to create a
correct and complete definition (with most compas features covered). Later on,
we want to extend the exporter with more OpenAPI specific features (e.g.
security methods/tags per endpoints, base urls, various http schema's, etc.),
but those need more configuration (within projects) and most likely vary a lot
between project implementations.

As said before (most) compas TypeCreator func/types are implemented, such as:

- (Request) Body (for primitive types, advanced types and ref types)
  - Ref types are hoisted within the spec components objects
  - Files are also supported
- Params, Query (for primitive types, advanced types and ref types)
- HTTP methods: GET, PUT, POST, PATCH, DELETE
- Spec information:
  - Title, version, description
- Pass-through settings (for now only `servers`)
- Compas groups
  - When no groups provided all groups within a structure are exposed
  - When an entity is references from outside a group. The ref itself (or more)
    is appended to the component collection, without applying the whole group
    and thus exposing associated endpoints.

To enable this feature following code snippet could be applied:

```node
// new or existing App instance
const app = new App({ verbose: true });

await app.generateOpenApi({
  inputPath: "./src/generated",
  outputFile: "./docs/openapi.json",
  enabledGroups: ["exampleGroup"],
  openApiOptions: {
    version: "1.0.0",
    title: "Title of specification",
    description: "Lorem Ipsum",
    servers: [
      {
        url: "https://locationToApi",
      },
    ],
  },
});
```

This will write a file (`openapi.json`) to the `docs` directory. This file can
be exposed via an endpoint (or be used internally, as documentation). Endpoint
example:

```node
// gen
R.get("/docs/openapi", "docsOpenAPI").response({ spec: T.any() });

// src (for location: "./docs/openapi.json")
groupHandeler.docsOpenAPI = async (ctx, next) => {
  // load structure
  const { structure } = await import(
    pathJoin(process.cwd(), "./docs/openapi.json")
  );

  ctx.body = { spec: structure };

  return next();
};
```

## In closing

We are now able to import & export & import OpenAPI specs again and again. We
hope you use this feature wisely ;) The next release, if we don't need a bug fix
release (A), is going to contain JWT based sessions backed by @compas/store. If
you have any usages not covered by the current sessions and want Compas to
support them, please add it to
[Issue 1280](https://github.com/compasjs/compas/issues/1280) and if you are
curious what the new implementation looks like, feel free to check out out the
[PR](https://github.com/compasjs/compas/pull/1302).
