# Release notes v0.0.124

A bit of a hectic last weeks for me, since I got an adorable pup. So I can't
promise that the release works completely or that these docs are complete.

## Lint config

The linter got another update. Based on the
['Node.js best practice'](https://github.com/goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices/blob/master/sections/errorhandling/returningpromises.md)
of returning promises, we removed the 'no-return-await' rule and added the
'require-await' rule. It boils down to the following: stacktraces are better
when promises are awaited instead of ' implicit' returned. The ESLint rules
don't cover everything, so most recommendations are not enforced yet. The
article also talks a bit about the performance cost, which is negligible in case
of for example database calls.

For more information please read the
[recommendation](https://github.com/goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices/blob/master/sections/errorhandling/returningpromises.md)
.

## Code gen

Of course, most of the breaking stuff happens here. We introduced a 'common'
directory and split the various outputs of generators over subdirectories named
by their groups. This should make it easier to discover related api calls and
minimize diffs. Let's go over each generator and check what has changed.

**types**:

The type generator has the least of all changes, but now resides in the
`$outputDirectory/common` directory.

**structure**:

As used by `dumpStructure` and `dumpApiStructure`. This file is now also in the
`$outputDirectory/common` directory.

**router**:

The router middleware, `setBodyParsers` and `groupMiddleware` are all exported
from the `$outputDirectory/common` directory. The handlers and tags are now
exported from `$outputDirectory/$group/controller.js`.

**validator**:

The validator generator behaves much like the 'router' generator. The usable api
is exposed from `$outputDirectory/$group/validatorsjs` and the 'common'
directory is used to store the 'anonymous-validators' (the plain JS,
deduplicated, validation functions).

**apiClient**:

The api-call functions are now split by group in
`$outputDirectory/$group/apiClient.js`. The apiClient generator has some more
breaking changes. We now expect an 'Axios' instance as the first argument of
each function. This allows you to manage the 'Axios' instance however you wish.
This also means that both `isBrowser` and `isNode` settings generate the same
functions, so it's more intuitive to use. It is expected that the
`addRequestIdInterceptors` is called which is exported from
`$outputDirectory/common/apiClient.js`.

**reactQuery**:

All types and the `useApi` hook are now epxorted from
`$outputDirectory/common/reactQuery.ts`. The hooks are split per group as well
and can be found in `$outputDirectory/$group/reactQueries.tsx`.

**sql**:

The sql generator still prefers the `$outputDirectory/databse` directory, but
only exports the `queries` object from `$outputDirectory/database/index.js`.

## More notes

- The easiest way to deal with all the import errors is probably to remove all
  imports (`/import \{[\w\n ,]+} from "./generated[\w\./]+";/gm`), and let your
  IDE resolve them all again.
- When doing lots of api calls from the server, it is advised to add a custom
  `https.Agent` when creating the `Axios` instance. This way you can enable
  connection 'keep-alive' and timeouts.
- All `index.js` files are removed, add a sorted imports rule to your ESLint
  config, as that list may grow a bit.
- The `$outputDirectory` is completely wiped on each `app.generate` call. This
  to enforce `import`-ing from the `controller` files instead of directly
  editing them.
- `common` is now a reserved name in the code generator and can't be used as a
  group name.

## In closing

_Some words of encouragement for all breaking changes_. I can't guarantee that
everything works as expected, since my brain only functions at half capacity
currently and not everything is covered by tests
[<sub><sup><sup>please help</sup></sup></sub>](https://github.com/compasjs/compas/issues/78).
Also more breaking changes are planned, see
[#754](https://github.com/compasjs/compas/issues/754) and
[#703](https://github.com/compasjs/compas/issues/703).
