# Release notes v0.0.180

Quite a big release after the holiday season. Packed with features, breaking
changes and the most likely bugs. Looking back at the past year of Compas
features, we see a bunch of additions to existing features, making them more
complete, a bunch of bug fixes, better docs and, of course, some new features.
We started to promote development with the TypeScript Language Server even for
JavaScript only projects. Cleaned up code generation by outputting each group in
its own directory. Got an OpenAPI exporter, parallelized the test runner, added
a config loader. And now start the new year fresh with a CLI refactor.

## CLI

The CLI got quite the overhaul, with a few focus areas.

**Improve discovery and documentation**:

The new Compas CLI is now fully explorable by using `compas help [...command]`
or `compas [...command] --help`. Resulting in a list of available sub commands
and a list of flags with their types and descriptions. This also allowed us to
create a full [CLI reference](/references/cli.html).

**Improve command and flag parsing**:

Invalid inputs are now consistently handled by the command and flag parser.
Giving suggestions of available sub commands, and allowing custom validators to
directly validate flag values, so we can guide the user in successfully
executing the command they need.

**Restructure commands to be more focused**:

Over time, we added quite a bunch of features. But sometimes they were not
logically grouped. Take for example `compas docker migrate`. Migration doesn't
have anything to do with the management of docker containers, so we refactored
it in a `compas migrate`. Which also allows better documentation of the
`--connection-settings` flag. Another notable change here is that
`compas coverage` is now `compast test --coverage`, since it is executing in
exactly the same way.

### Breaking changes

This is an incomplete list of breaking changes of the Compas CLI. Please verify
all your usages.

- Implicit run of scripts is removed. So `compas generate` is now
  `compas run generate`. To get the old behaviour, upgrade your script to a
  project level CLI command via
  [extending the CLI](/features/extending-the-cli.html).
- Passing arguments to scripts via `compas run` should use
  `--script-args "--arg 1 --foo"`.
- Removed `--watch` completely and thus any export of `cliWatchOptions` can be
  removed as well. This will come back in a future version of Compas, but most
  likely in another format.
- Migrating should be done via `compas migrate` instead of
  `compas docker migrate`.
- `compas docker reset` is removed and instead `compas docker clean --project`
  should be used.
- `compas coverage` is removed in favor of `compas test --coverage`. It also
  doesn't accept C8 arguments anymore. See `compas test --help` for more
  information.

## Other notable features

We now support react-query@v4. It requires all (parts of) query keys to be an
array. To do this, the `.baseKey` function on generated hooks now also returns
an array.

The default log middleware injected by `getApp` from @compas/server, now has
some options to log the event name if available. Since all communications of
routes are based on the route group and name, this should make it easier to find
logs about that route.

## In closing

I am quite happy with the progress last year, and in the last weeks with the new
CLI. The docs are getting slowly but surely some more content, so the experience
should only get better. All the best for the new year and as always, keep on
generating :)
