# Release notes v0.0.81

Compared to v0.0.79 this is a very small release.

### Chores

We currently test PR's against internal projects that use lbu. Currently, it is
only a single frontend and backend project, but soon an extra frontend and
backend will be added. The builds are failing if either `E2E fronted I` or
`E2E backend I` are still on a PR.

### Code gen

We also added `T.searchable()` this allows to have reusable type definitions for
things like strings and numbers, but do not want to have it as sql searchable
everywhere.

### Store

The biggest part of this release focuses on store. There is now an optional
'meta' field on 'file'. This is a breaking migration. We also try to resolve
migration imports better, by checking nested node_modules and following the
`main` and `exports` keys from the `package.json` of a nested namespace.

Then there is also support for recurring jobs, by providing a name and an
interval. Lbu will schedule your jobs on an interval, making sure that only a
single job with the provided name is active. It is also possible to provide a
priority. The scheduled job will always have a higher priority than the job that
is scheduling.

It boils down to approximately the following:

- Call `addRecurringJobToQueue(sql, { name: "foo", interval: { hours: 1 } })`
  Check if there is an incomplete 'scheduling'-job for name 'foo', if not create
  one.
- `JobQueueWorker` has special handling for the 'scheduling'-job, which is
  handled internally.
- The special handler creates a job scheduled for 'now' with name 'foo'
- The special handler creates a new 'scheduling'-job, taking the interval into
  account.

These recurring jobs can be scheduled by using `addRecurringJobToQueue` only
available by importing and not on a `JobQueueWorker`.

##### In closing

We are currently working on a refactor of the code generator. This has mostly
breakages in exports, sql relations and various types. I want to give my sincere
apologies in advance for all breaking changes in the next release. That's all
for now.
